---
layout: default
title: 4 v's of Big Data
parent: Big Data
nav_order: 1
published: true
date: 2019-03-01
---
# THE 4 V’S OF BIG DATA

Big data is identified by few attributes which are called as four V's of bog data 

1. Volume
2. Variety
3. Velocity
4. Veracity

## Volume 

Big data implies enormous volumes of data. It used to be employees created data. Now that data is generated by machines, networks and human interaction on systems like social media the volume of data to be analyzed is massive. Yet, Inderpal states that the volume of data is not as much the problem as other V’s like veracity.

## Variety 

Variety refers to the many sources and types of data both structured and unstructured. We used to store data from sources like spreadsheets and databases. Now data comes in the form of emails, photos, videos, monitoring devices, PDFs, audio, etc. This variety of unstructured data creates problems for storage, mining and analyzing data. Jeff Veis, VP Solutions at HP Autonomy presented how HP is helping organizations deal with big challenges including data variety.

## Velocity

Big Data Velocity deals with the pace at which data flows in from sources like business processes, machines, networks and human interaction with things like social media sites, mobile devices, etc. The flow of data is massive and continuous. This real-time data can help researchers and businesses make valuable decisions that provide strategic competitive advantages and ROI if you are able to handle the velocity. Inderpal suggest that sampling data can help deal with issues like volume and velocity.

## Veracity
Big Data Veracity refers to the biases, noise and abnormality in data. Is the data that is being stored, and mined meaningful to the problem being analyzed. Inderpal feel veracity in data analysis is the biggest challenge when compares to things like volume and velocity. In scoping out your big data strategy you need to have your team and partners work to help keep your data clean and processes to keep ‘dirty data’ from accumulating in your systems.

